All right.
So on the left hand side, I've opened up my job listings component, and on the right hand side, I've
opened up its corresponding test suite in job listings.
Test that?
Yes.
Now, as a reminder, what we're doing in this component for our jobs is we're using the on mounted
lifecycle hook.
The way it now works in our composition API is that every lifecycle hook has a corresponding function
that we import from view and we use it in our setup method.
So here we're importing on mounted from view and that lifecycle hook runs when the component mounts
or in other words, when it's placed in the DOM in our browser.
And what we provide to on mounted is a function to run at that moment of execution, at that moment
in the components exists.
So here what we're doing is we're providing that use fetch jobs dispatch function right here.
And that is the one that dispatches the action to the View Store, which starts the process of running
that asynchronous action, making the asynchronous API request, getting the jobs, saving them to the
view store, which itself triggers, as we know, a whole bunch of things to run with getters and so
on.
It's a really long, complicated chain, but it all kicks off right here with this on mounted lifecycle
look.
And as it turns out, we can actually use the exact same lifecycle hook multiple times.
So if we want, for example, two or three distinct independent functions to run, when the component
mounts, all we have to do in our setup method is invoke or execute on mounted another time and pass
in exactly what we want to do.
So obviously what we want to do here is run on mounted one more time and then pass it.
This function, this composable function, which is going to talk to the store and initiate the asynchronous
action that's going to fetch our degrees.
And once that happens, everything will roll through its usual chain.
And then, of course, that should allow us to get the array of unique degrees from our getters, which
should allow them to render properly on the left hand side a app.
This is sort of where it all comes together, because we can't render any checkboxes until we have any
degrees and we can't get those unique degrees until we get the API response and we can't get the API
response until we kick off the action and we can't kick off the action until we say to do so when the
job listings component mounts.
So hopefully that chain of events makes sense.
The only thing that we need to do now is to write a test to capture this logic.
So we follow test driven development before we implement the solution.
So right here in job listings, that test that's right here, I'm going to start by importing my new
composable, which is called use.
Fetch Degrees of dispatch.
We actually do not need to provide any new type Typekit marking because we're never going to actually
set the return value for this just mock function.
It's totally fine being the default.
So if I scroll down for my tests for job listings, there's luckily already a section here called When
a Component Mounts and this is a good place to put our new test.
So right here I'm just going to copy our existing test and modify it.
So copy this test and here paste it down below.
And now we'll just update all the words.
So makes a call to fetch degrees from API.
Perfect.
And then you can see here we're simply marking out the return values of some of these composable that
we need right here, that need to execute properly, to create the right values, to provide.
And in the set methods return object.
We don't really care about this, but what it basically does is sets up filter jobs, sets up the current
page, the previous page, next page, so on and so forth.
Then we actually shall amount the job listings component.
That is what we care about.
And then after the component mounts, we verify that a certain gest mark function has been invoked.
So here, instead of verifying that use fetch jobs dispatch has been invoked.
I want to test that.
Use fetch degrees.
Dispatch has been invoked and in theory, when Vue runs and mounts, whatever function we pass to the
on mounted lifecycle hook, it should run for us automatically.
So this is verifying that we have that lifecycle hook logic correctly implemented.
So I'm going to save this.
Let's let it run.
It will, of course, fail.
It says, Hey, I expected at least one call.
I'm not seeing any calls, which means there's nothing that's actually invoking use fetch degrees dispatch.
Totally fine, because we're not doing anything here.
So let's make that now a reality.
We're going to start by importing that composable function.
So right here we are already importing from our composable.
Yes.
File.
So I'm going to add use fetch degrees dispatched right here and then right here in our setup method,
I'm going to use our on mounted function.
This is imported from view and we can invoke it as many times as we want for however many operations
we want to run at this moment in the components execution, in this lifecycle, right at this point
of execution, when the component has been mounted, we're asking Vue to invoke the use fetch degrees
dispatch that will run the composable function to trigger the asynchronous action to make the request
for degrees.
And then everything, of course, happens after we receive that statement to the View Store, our getters
run, our screen updates, etc..
All right.
So we can see now that everything is passing for this component.
So things are looking pretty good.
And in the very next lesson we can try out our whole feature in the browser.
So pretty exciting and I'll see you in the next lesson.